# CodeGen

## Introduction

&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup>**"Empowering Every Software Architect"**<br></sup>

CodeGen is a tool that generates source code from models described in text. This tool empowers software architects
to streamline their design process. However, this tool is still experimental.

This is a form of MDD(Model-Driven Development), but its core concept is "Design by Contract." and "Interface Driven Development".
Defining data and service interfaces before implementation strengthens the software design and ensures architectural integrity.

The tool is also designed to implement design patterns and practices such as Domain-Driven Design (DDD). You can optionally
add code generation agents to produce code based on the decorators specified in your model. In other words, more than
just creating simple boilerplate, this tool leverages a code generation agent to produce code specific to each decorator.

This tool does not provide a command-line interface; instead, users define their configuration using a Kotlin-based DSL.
This DSL specifies the input location for the model text and the output directory for the generated source code.

You are welcome to use this tool for commercial development or as educational material in schools.
The license for the code generated by this tool belongs to the user. However,
please note that we assume no responsibility for the generated code.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Support
### Programming Languages
* Java
### Frameworks
* SpringBoot
### Build Systems
* Gradle

------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Future development

### Additional Programming Languages
* TypeScript
* C#
* Kotlin
* Python (experimental)
* Rust (experimental)

### Additional Build Systems
* Maven

### Additional Agents
* Repository/Entity/SQL Mapper (generated code that directly manipulates SQL)

### AI-Driven Development (experimental)
This tool may facilitate AI-driven development. While it does not directly generate the final source code from requirements,
it provides a step to resolve uncertainties by generating model definitions that serve as intermediate design documents.

As a hypothesis for a new development methodology, we are exploring an experimental approach using AI to generate model files from requirements.
Rather than generating final source code directly, this process focuses on AI-assisted modeling. This aims to significantly reduce manual effort while leaving the final implementation to human programmers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## DSL (Kotlin)
The DSL is implemented in Kotlin. It allows users to specify settings such as the model file, output directory, and build system. Users can describe these configurations within a dsl { } block.
```
dsl { }
```
### Run Configuration Block
The configuration block allows users to specify the following.
* modelPath
  * directory path which contains text model files.
* outputPath
  * directory path to output converted files.

```
dsl {
  runConfig {
    modelPath = getAbsolutePath("...")  // Model directory which contains model files. 
    outPath = getAbsolutePath("...")
  }
}
```

### Module Block
The module block allows users to specify module characteristics. At least one module block is required to output converted files, and multiple module blocks can be defined within the DSL. Currently, only Gradle is supported.
The block takes one string parameter which will be the folder name in the output path.

In Java and Kotlin, basePackage function can be used to specify package path.

```
dsl {
  gradle("JavaModule1") {                // <- module block. JavaModule1 is the name of the folder that will be created under the outPath.
      basePackage("com.example.demo")    // <- base package path.
  }
}
```
#### Sub Module Block
The submodule block is used for multi-project structures if the build system supports them, such as Gradle.
The block also takes one string parameter which will be the folder name in the parent module path.
```
dsl {
  gradle("JavaModule1") {
    sub("share") {            // <- The output path is {outPath}/JavaModule1/share
    }
    sub("microservice1") {    // <- The output path is {outPath}/JavaModule1/microservice1
    }
    sub("microservice2") {    // <- The output path is {outPath}/JavaModule1/microservice2
    }
  }
}
```

### Packages Block
The packages block is described within module /submodule block and allows user to specify which package path to include/exclude.   
include function includes a package path, exclude function excludes a package path.
```
dsl {
  gradle("JavaModule1") {
    sub("share") {
      packages {
        include("domain.values")
        include("domain.service")
        exclude("domain.service.impl")
      }
    }
    sub("microservice1") {
      packages {
        include("domain.service.impl")
      }
    }    
}
```
### Agent Block
The agent block is described within module block and allows users to specify agents to run.
```
dsl {
  gradle("JavaModule1") {
    agents {
      include(JavaValueAgent())
    }
  }
}
```
### Custom Agents
Uses can easily create custom agents by declaring class extends AbstractAgent in Kotlin.
```
class JavaValueAgent : AbstractAgent() {
} 
```
### File Header
The fileHeader function allows users to specify file header text which will be written in every output files.
```
dsl {
    fileHeader("""
      Copyright (C) 2026 xfc_arch.com
        etc etc.
    """)
```
```
(sample output)
/*
 * Copyright (C) 2026 xfc_arch.com
 * etc etc.
 */
```
------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Modeling Language
Models are defined in text using a UML-like syntax.

### Comments
Comments are specified after '//' or enclosed within '/*  */'.
```
// Comment
/* Comment */

/*
 * Comment
 */
```
### Documents
Documents are enclosed within '/**  */'.
```
/** document */

/**
 * Document
 */
```

### Packages
Packages can be defined by enclosing the package path in brackets ( ). The package path is delimited by periods ('.').   
Class models described following a package definition are scoped to that package.
```
(domain.values)
```

### Class models
Class models can be defined by enclosing the model name in brackets [ ].
```
[Product]
```

#### stereo types
Stereotypes are written above the class model, enclosed in double angle brackets << >>.

#### Interfaces
Interfaces can be defined with Interface Stereotype.
```
<<Interface>>
[Service1]
```
### implements/extends class models
To implement or extend a class model, add a colon (:) after the class model definition, followed by the inherited class models.
If there are multiple inherited models, separate them with commas.
```
<<Interface>>
[Service1]

<<Interface>>
[Service2]

[ServiceImpl:Service1,Service2]  // ServiceImpl implementes Service1 and Service2
```

### Attributes
Attributes can be defined following the class model definition using the format below.   
```{visibility} attribute-name : type ```

```
[Product]
+ name:   String
- scores: List<Int32>
```

### Methods
Methods can be defined following the class model definition using the format below.   
```{visibility} method-name({parameter-name: type}...) : type ```
```
[Product]
+ method1()
- method2(param1: String, param2: Set<String>): List<Int32>
```

### Types
* String
* Boolean/Bool
* Long   (64-bit signed integer)
* int64  (64-bit signed integer)
* int    (32-bit signed integer)
* int32  (32-bit signed integer)
* int16  (16-bit signed integer)
* int8   (8-bit signed integer)
* uint64 (64-bit unsigned integer)
* uint32 (32-bit unsigned integer)
* uint16 (16-bit unsigned integer)
* uint8  (8-bit unsigned integer)
* float  (32-bit floating-point number)
* double (64-bit floating-point number)
* List
* Set
* Map

#### Generics
List, Set, and Map are generic types. They take type parameters.
```
List<String>
Map<String, String>
```
Models can be defined with type parameters.
```
[Model1<T,U>]   // T, U are type parameters.
attr1: T
attr2: U

[Model2]
attr : Model1<String, Int32>
```

### Decorators
Decorators are written as strings starting with '@'. They are called annotations in some programming languages.
```
@Value  // <- decorator
[ProductPrice]
value: String
```

### Decorator parameters
Decorators can have parameters. These parameters can be named, or they can be described without a name. Currently, only the String type is supported for parameter values.
```
@RestController
[TestRestController]
@export("/method1", method="Put")         // "/method1" is the value of no name parameter, "Put" is the value of parameter named "method"
+ method3(param: Product) : ProductPrice
```

## License
This project is licensed under the GPLv3 License.
